---
layout: post
title: PgBouncer 1.6
category: pgbouncer
---

### Main new features:

  * Load user password hash from postgres database.
  * Pooling mode can be configured both per-database and per-user.
  * Per-database and per-user connection limits: `max_db_connections` and
    `max_user_connections`.
  * Add DISABLE/ENABLE commands to prevent new connections.
  * New preferred DNS backend: c-ares.
  * Config files have `%include FILENAME` directive to allow configuration
    to be split into several files.

<!--more-->

### The full changelog:

#### Features

  * Load user password hash from postgres database.
    New parameters:

      auth_user
:           user to use for connecting same db and fetching user info.
            Can be set per-database too.

      auth_query
:          SQL query to run under `auth_user`.
           Default: `SELECT usename, passwd FROM pg_shadow WHERE usename=$1`

    (Cody Cutrer)

  * Pooling mode can be configured both per-database and per-user.
    (Cody Cutrer)

  * Per-database and per-user connection limits: `max_db_connections` and
    max_user_connections.
    (Cody Cutrer / Pavel Stehule)

  * Add DISABLE/ENABLE commands to prevent new connections.
    (William Grant)

  * New DNS backend: c-ares.  Only DNS backend that supports all
    interesting features:  /etc/hosts with refresh, SOA lookup,
    large replies (via TCP/EDNS+UDP), IPv6.  It is the preferred
    backend now, and probably will be *only* backend in the future,
    as it's pointless to support zoo of inadequate libraries.

    SNAFU: c-ares versions <= 1.10 have bug which breaks CNAME-s support
    when IPv6 has been enabled.  (Fixed upstream.)  As a workaround,
    c-ares <= 1.10 is used IPv4-only.  So PgBouncer will drop other backends
    only when c-ares >1.10 (still unreleased) has been out some time...

  * Show `remote_pid` in SHOW CLIENTS/SERVERS.  Available for clients that
    connect over unix sockets and both tcp and unix socket server.
    In case of tcp-server, the pid is taken from cancel key.

  * Add separate config param (`dns_nxdomain_ttl`) for controlling
    negative dns caching.
    (Cody Cutrer)

  * Add the client host IP address and port to `application_name`.
    This is enabled by a config parameter `application_name_add_host`
    which defaults to 'off'.
    (Andrew Dunstan)

  * Config files have '%include FILENAME' directive to allow configuration
    to be split into several files.
    (Andrew Dunstan)

#### Fixes

  * fix launching new connections during maintenance
    (Cody Cutrer)

  * don't load auth file twice at boot
    (Cody Cutrer)

  * Proper invalidation for autodbs

  * ipv6: Set `IPV6_V6ONLY` on listen socket.

  * win32: Don't set `SO_REUSEADDR` on listen socket.

  * Fix IPv6 address memcpy

  * Fix cancellation of of waiting clients.
    (Mathieu Fenniak)

  * Small bug fix, must check calloc result
    (Heikki Linnakangas)

  * Add newline at the end of the PID file
    (Peter Eisentraut)

  * Don't allow new server connections when PAUSE <db> was issued.
    (Petr Jelinek)

  * Fix 'bad packet' during login when header is delayed.
    (Michał Trojnara, Marko Kreen)

  * Fix errors detected by Coverty.
    (Euler Taveira)

  * Disable `server_idle_timeout` when server count gets below `min_pool` (#60)
    (Marko Kreen)

#### Cleanups

  * log: wrap ipv6 address with []

  * log: On connect to server, show local ip and port

  * win32: use gnu-style for long args: --foo

  * Allow numbers in hostname, always try to parse with inet_pton

  * Fix deallocate_all() in FAQ

  * Fix incorrect keyword in example config file
    (Magnus Hagander)

  * Allow comments (with ';') in auth files.
    (Guillaume Aubert)

  * Fix spelling mistakes in log messages and comments.
    (Dmitriy Olshevskiy)

